update guidance on DNS resolution for services (#26405)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service.md

<!-- overview -->
This page provides an overview of DNS support by Kubernetes.

> 

Reviewer: nit: Does it make sense to remove line 10 (This page provides an overview...)?

Author: I'll write an actually helpful overview :)

the kubelets to tell individual containers to use the DNS Service's IP to
resolve DNS names.

Every Service defined in the cluster (including the DNS server itself) is
assigned a DNS name. By default, a client Pod's DNS search list will
include the Pod's own namespace and the cluster's default domain. 

### Namespaces of Services 

DNS queries for services change based on namespace of the pod. DNS queries that don't specifiy a namespace are limited to the pod's namespace. Services in other namespaces may be accessed by specifying the namespace. 

For example, consider a pod in a `test` namespace. A `data` service is in the `prod` namespace. 

> A query for `data` returns no results, because it uses the pod's `test` namespace. 

Reviewer 2: How about:
```suggestion
If that pod makes a DNS query to resolve `data` there are no results
found, because it uses the pod's _test_ namespace. The actual DNS name
queried is similar to `data.test.cluster.local.` (the `cluster.local.` part
is Kubernetes' default zone, but you can configure it to be something different).

`data.prod.cluster.local.` does exist in DNS. A pod in the _test_ namespace
can look up `data.prod` or `data.prod.cluster.local.` and resolve either name OK.
```

Author: I added additional description of DNS queries based on this. Thanks!

Reviewer 3: > A query for `data` returns no results, because it uses the pod's `test` namespace. 

This actually depends, right? If the query is raised from within the `prod` namespace, the query will succeed, right? Please be precise when describing what works and what doesn't work.

Author: this is exactly what i'm trying to clarify with the PR

How does this sentence sound?

> DNS queries for services change based on namespace of the pod. DNS queries that don't specify a namespace are limited to the pod's namespace. Services in other namespaces may be accessed by specifying the namespace.

Author: I also think the section, as a whole, makes this clear 

https://deploy-preview-26405--kubernetes-io-master-staging.netlify.app/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service/#namespaces-of-services

Reviewer 2: @tengqm do you agree that the context for that sentence (“For example, consider a pod in a `test` namespace.” before “A query for data returns no results, because it uses the pod's test namespace.”) is sufficiently clear?

Reviewer 2: @geoffcline rewriting into the active voice (“&hellip;when a container in that Pod queries DNS for&hellip;”) _might_ help?

Reviewer 3: @sftim Yes. Such a change would help clarify the context.

Reviewer 3: Maybe adding some constraints would be helpful.

DNS queries for services change based on namespace of the requesting pod.
DNS queries that don't specify a namespace are limited to the requesting pod's namespace.
A pod can access services in any namespaces by explicitly specifying the services' namespace.

the kubelets to tell individual containers to use the DNS Service's IP to
resolve DNS names.

Every Service defined in the cluster (including the DNS server itself) is
assigned a DNS name. By default, a client Pod's DNS search list will
include the Pod's own namespace and the cluster's default domain. 

### Namespaces of Services 

> DNS queries for services change based on namespace of the pod. DNS queries that don't specifiy a namespace are limited to the pod's namespace. Services in other namespaces may be accessed by specifying the namespace. 

Reviewer 3: Please wrap the long lines for the ease of change tracking in the future.
Please use active voice when possible.

Author: is there a tool you use for auto wrapping long lines?

Reviewer 3: I'm using VIM. Auto-wrapping or reformatting a paragraph can be easily done by simply press 'Q' in a paragraph.

Author: ah thank you!

the kubelets to tell individual containers to use the DNS Service's IP to
resolve DNS names.

Every Service defined in the cluster (including the DNS server itself) is
assigned a DNS name. By default, a client Pod's DNS search list will

> include the Pod's own namespace and the cluster's default domain. 

Reviewer: nit: s/will include/includes/

Author: ty

### Namespaces of Services 

DNS queries for services change based on namespace of the pod. DNS queries
that don't specify a namespace are limited to the pod's namespace. Access

> services in other namespaces by including the namespace in the DNS query. 

Reviewer: I am trying to walk through the example/description.

DNS queries for services change [from what? I'm not sure what the change is] based on the namespace of the pod.

nit: You can access services in other namespaces by including the namespace in the DNS query?

Author: how about:

> A DNS query may return different results based on the namespace of the pod making 
> it. DNS queries that don't specify a namespace are limited to the pod's namespace.

For example, consider a pod in a `test` namespace. A `data` service is in 
the `prod` namespace. 

A query for `data` returns no results, because it uses the pod's `test` namespace. 

A query for `data.prod` returns the intended result, because it specifies the namespace. 

DNS queries may be expanded using the pod's `/etc/resolv.conf`. Kubelet 

> sets this file for each pod. For example, A query for just `data` may be 

Reviewer: For example, a query for `data` ...

expanded to `data.test.cluster.local`. The values of the `search` option 

> are used to expand queries. [Learn more](https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/resolv.conf.5.html) 

Reviewer: nit: address the reader, You can learn more ... or To learn more about ... see [resolve.conf](...).

the kubelets to tell individual containers to use the DNS Service's IP to
resolve DNS names.

Every Service defined in the cluster (including the DNS server itself) is
assigned a DNS name. By default, a client Pod's DNS search list includes the 
Pod's own namespace and the cluster's default domain. 

### Namespaces of Services 

A DNS query may return different results based on the namespace of the pod making 
it. DNS queries that don't specify a namespace are limited to the pod's 
namespace. Access services in other namespaces by specifying it in the DNS query. 

For example, consider a pod in a `test` namespace. A `data` service is in 
the `prod` namespace. 

A query for `data` returns no results, because it uses the pod's `test` namespace. 

A query for `data.prod` returns the intended result, because it specifies the 
namespace. 

DNS queries may be expanded using the pod's `/etc/resolv.conf`. Kubelet 
sets this file for each pod. For example, a query for just `data` may be 

> expanded to `data.test.cluster.local`. The values of the `search` option 

Reviewer 2: I'm wary of not making it clear to the reader that whilst `cluster.local.` is a Kubernetes default, _their_ cluster might use a different name here.

Author: In my opinion, it's appropriately flagged as "for example", and readers are directed to check the config file.
